# Proof Of Concept

To demonstrate the use of 
* Dexpi P&ID in RDF format
* reasoning with a triplestore

we suggest creating a command-line based tool that can, after taking a dexpi in xml format, handle these questions

* Given a list of equipment id's consituting a boundary, list all equipment inside that boundary (This is part of the use case for commissioning packages)

* Given some identifier of a piece of equipment in the dexpi diagram, output the list of spades that will isolate it

* Given two equipment IDs in the dexpi diagram, output the list of equipment ids that are between them (The goal is that a UI should be able to color the path)

Currently we do not have example data with spades, so that use case is not recommended. The first case, commissioning/boundary seems the most promising. 

The input is assumed given in the Proteus XML format, and transformed to our own RDF representation of DEXPI P&ID

We also want to see if any existing Rdf visualization tools make sense to use over the Rdf representation. 

## Steps                                

As a first step, we will create mappings and queries that can express the information needs from above.
For each query above, these steps must be done in a loop untill satisified

* Find as simple as possible example Dexpi P&Id where the question makes sense. Start with [the existing example](../rml/README.md)

* Start expressing the query as sparql, starting with a small one. 

* Add vocabulary to dexpi.ttl if lacking

* Run the rml-mapper and put the output generated by the rmlmapper in [../rml](../rml) into some triplestore, f.ex. fuseki or rdfox.

* Try the query over data 

* Extend the mappings if something is not translated